-- import: fifthtry.com/events





-- dd.past-demo-day:  FifthTry
number: #11
date: 18 Nov 
year: 2022
demo-video: vOEO7hxvSSw
planning-video: -zC52jk29sY
review-video: XDQTz4kvhCw
demo-date: 18th Nov 2022
planning-date: 14th Nov 2022
review-date: 16th Nov 2022
$sidebar: true

-- dd.past-demo-day.sidebar-content:

-- events.sidebar:

-- end: dd.past-demo-day.sidebar-content

-- dd.past-demo-day.body:

Our 11th weekly [demo event](/h/dd/) happened on 18th Nov 2022. We showcased
what people in FifthTry have built in this week. This is an important part of
our, [how to do remote right initiative](/h/remote/), we are now fully remote
company.



-- ds.h1: One Week Of One on Ones

We mentioned last week we have started our weekly demo day with everyone. We
have finished our second week with one on one with everyone and I am quite
liking it.

-- ds.h2: Guidelines Review

We have scheduled 30 mins calls with everyone, and in the call we write and
review guidelines. We go through different sections of our handbook and ask
ourselves if we are following the guidelines, if the guidelines is clear, is it
something we want to really enforce, is it worth the effort to contraint people
or to ask people to remember one more thing? Every guideline hopes to improve
us as a company, but does every guideline we have laid out is achieving that
goal? If not can we rewrite or update the guidelines somehow? Maybe slash it
altogether?

-- ds.h2: Communication Redundancy

One of the things we believe in, when it comes to instilling changes in a
company, when it comes to getting a company as a whole to adopt a new practice,
it's not easy, a single mail/memo/talk is not going to cut it. People will
remember very little of that communication after a few months.

So if a change is to happen it must be communicated and discussed again and
again. So each guideline we hope to go with every individual in a one on one
fashion. We have to write the guideline in writing, but also discuss it in one
on one. We then have to "publish" the guideline, inform the team that we believe
so and so, and invite feedback etc as a group. And then maybe we should do
periodic, monthly or so workshops on how do we work well together in which we
again review the outstanding guidelines, and which ones are being followed and
which ones aren't.

This is a lot of duplciation. And it's a good thing. There is not other way to
make it work.

-- ds.h2: Informal Communication

One interesting learning that came out is that we should speak in the language
we prefer in these talks. In the first round I did it in English, I usually
speak in English with everyone. But some people opened up more when we switched
to speaking in Hindi.

Also effort has to be made to try to speak like you are speaking with a friend,
instead of the usualy "I am speaking with my boss" setup. It takes a lot of work
as the heirarchy, and the grey hair is not easy to ignore.

-- ds.h2: Philosophy Of Product And Of Company

For us to succeed we have to both think about, and develop a consensus on
philosophy about our product, as well as about our company. We can not each of
not think about the product we are building all the time, nor can we each not
think about how we work as a company. Company means us. The internals. A place
we love. A place we feel like improving daily and weekly.

It's really hard for a bunch of people to come together and walk in step. But
magic happens when they do.

-- ds.h1: First Week Of Demo Day Meetings

Till our last demo day we largely "winged it". We had a decent idea of what we
are building at large, but the specifics of what we are going to present in the
coming demo day was largely decided by individuals.

While this is good, better than no demo day, we believe a little bit of planning
can help improve thing even further. This is what we believe in btw, doing small
changes incrementally, and evolving with team to try to make everything a little
bit better on a regular basis, instead of doing planning for months or querter
etc. A general consensus on the north-start and small measurable improvement
continusouly is the way to go.


-- ds.h2: Planning Meeting

For demo day we are doing three meetings, a planning meeting that happened on
14th Nov 2022, you can see the recording below.


-- ds.markdown:

We will be uploading recordings of upcoming demo day plannings as well. Planning
meeting happens on Monday, start of the week where we find what we are going
to try to demo this week. In this meeting we are ambitous, try to put as much
on our plate as much.

What we decided to do on that day is updated in this page itself. The page keeps
changing over the week, so if you really want to see the history after the fact,
and are not following us on a live fashion you will have to look at [Github
History](https://github.com/FifthTry/dotcom/commits/main/events/dd/2022/12.ftd).

PS: When our Change Request feature is live we will have a better history page,
for now manage with the slightly crappy version offered by Github.

-- ds.h2: Review Meetings

We do a review meeting mid week, which happened on 16th Nov 2022.



-- ds.markdown:

We do a reality check and course correction in this meeting. We take a look at
projects, and some we move to the next demo day if we can not do it, or delete
if it's no longer

-- ds.h2: Ganesh's Suggestion

Ganesh suggested that we do our planning on Friday and Demo on Monday.

-- ds.h1: Project Brief Is Ready

https://squareboat.com

Project Brief: [Shared/Marketing/FifthTry Project
Brief.pptx](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CHWKFM1kA5XOv2cig3pQ3NbmoMS6wf3g/edit#slide=id.p1)

-- ds.h1: Tandem

We started using tandem.



-- dd.presentation: Move FifthTry.com to Heroku
owner: AbrarK
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.abrar.jpg
status: On Track

Currently we are using github pages, now lets switch to Heroku so we can start
using fpm's auth feature.

This document will become the "coming soon page" for others, and for
FifthTry employees it would act as planning document. Also implement auth with
following groups: `ft-zens`, `ftd-fans`, `fpm-fans`.



-- dd.presentation: End to End FPM App + Doc Site Support
owner: AbrarK
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.abrar.jpg
helper: Ganesh
helper-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
status: Done


We have built both app switcher, the processor etc, we need to see the whole
thing end to end. Lets ensure tha app icons are working. `.icon` support in
`fpm.package` record.




-- dd.presentation: WASM: Subscription App With Doc Site Support
owner: Ganesh
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
helper: AbrarK
helper-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.abrar.jpg
status: In Progress


We will show a subscriber dialog on abrark.com. It will be backed by supabase.

If user dismisses the subscription popup without subscribing, we will store this
in localstore and show minimised version of the popup so they can change their
mind later on.

If user subscribes, we will do optimisting request, and hide the dialog. Ideally
we should hide the dialog only if backend call succeeded, but currently on
successful response from Django we can not update local store.

Maybe we should update our localstore framework and let app developers say this
variable is local store backed, so if the variable is modified in any way from
browser, it should automatically update localstore.

If we had https://github.com/ftd-lang/fpm/discussions/626 implemented we could
have made subscription support optional in doc-site but for now it is going to
be mandatory. You can switch off subscription dialog using some global variable.

How would we update the dialog content? We may want to change the subscription
dialog content globally, show this content every where, or we can do it on a
per page basis, eg for this page show this reason to subscribe to me.

The global variables should have default side wide value in `FPM/config.ftd`,
or overwrite them in the current documents ftd file.

We will have variables called `-- subscription-app.dialog-data
subscription-dialog`, which will contain:

-- ds.code:
lang: ftd

\-- string subscription-about:

Sign up here to experience how our forms work
and learn how you can use them to build
your business.


PLUS! Grab our Essential Creators Toolkit.


\-- record subscription-app.dialog-data:
boolean visible: false
string title: Subscribe to my mailing list
string cta: Sign Me Up
caption body: $subscription-about
string cta-maximise: Subscribe
string legal: We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time.


-- ds.markdown:

[Excalidraw UI Mock](https://app.excalidraw.com/s/2xFnk4q86Ix/2LIKW8Kyy8h)

`/-/fifthtry.github.io/subscription-app/subscribe/`

Based on the dialog UI we will add some fields here. Tomorrow we will create
a form framework which will allow site authors to describe the form, and the
framework will do form validation etc and store the values.

We will create github.com/FifthTry/subscription-app. This repo will contain
wasm stuff, and the UI code to show the dialog. Doc-site will add a dependency
to this package.

Lets also add an entry in `fpm.dev/featured/` for this app. We will create a new
section called "featured apps", after "Documentation Sites", and it will only
contain this for now.

We will also need a blog post to install subscription app. It will have to
describe how to create supabase account and database there, and how the create
the emails table where emails are getting stored. Also the keys.

Note: we are not doing any email validation (this is not [double opt
in](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opt-in_email)) in this release. To do opt-in
we need email capability, which we do not yet have.



-- dd.presentation: Subscription Walling
owner: AbrarK
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.abrar.jpg
status: Not Sure


Can we use the fact that user is subscribed or not to create a wall.

-- ds.code: defining a user-group using cookie
lang: ftd

\-- fpm.user-groupd: readers
has-cookie: is-subscribed

-- ds.markdown:

Our subscription app then will set the cookie `is-subscribed`. Now we can
show pages to only people who are subscribed to us.

What if they come from a different browser? They will have to enter their email
address again in the new browser.



-- dd.presentation: Wall Support in Sitemap
owner: AbrarK
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.abrar.jpg
helper: Ganesh
helper-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
status: Done


And doc-site should only show page title and a `-- string ds.wall-message:
please login`, and `-- string ds.login-url`.

We have to create a processor: `is-reader`:

-- ds.code:
lang: ftd

\-- boolean is-reader: true
$processor$: is-reader

-- ds.markdown:

If `is-reader` is true then show whole page, else who only the page title and
show `ds.wall-message`.

[Refernce drawing](https://app.excalidraw.com/s/2xFnk4q86Ix/8Sx8MfYb0Vj)



-- dd.presentation: Auth: More Providers
owner: AbrarK
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.abrar.jpg
status: Done


We should implement `github-follows`, `github-watches`, `github-team`,
`github-sponsors`, `github-contributor=<repo>`.

Telegram.

Optional:

Discord.

Slack.




-- dd.presentation: Icon Support In Doc Site
owner: Ganesh
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
status: On Track

We have to add support for this in doc-site. And in then update docs etc. Also
in dash-dash-ds.





-- dd.presentation: Workshop Page
owner: Ganesh
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
status: On Track


We have created some workshop page enhancements, it's time to finish it, and
show `ftd.dev/workshop`, with proper content using the latest work done by
Ganesh.




-- dd.presentation: Font Documentation Improvement
owner: Ganesh
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
helper: Priyanka
status: Half Done

Follow the standard in all font sites.



-- dd.presentation: Spider Book DS
owner: Ganesh
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
helper: Priyanka
status: Experimenting





-- dd.presentation: More ftd 0.3
owner: Arpita
owner-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.arpita.jpg
status: Not Sure

Let see if we can get doc-site working this week.



-- dd.presentation: Payment Improvements
owner: Rithik
helper: Ganesh
helper-avatar: $assets.files.images.events.ganesh.jpg
status: Done


In last demo we saw one time payment integration. We have to switch to monthly
subscription API integration.

Also the UI that I saw last time had buttons for developers etc, we have to
create UI for our end users. The goal is to make this live asap, that end users
can use.

It will be deployed on `FifthTry.com/hosting/`. Ganesh will find the UI that
Thakkar created.

-- end: dd.presentation


-- end: dd.past-demo-day